Implement Clean Architecture (#2)
Q42/template-ios: README.md

For linting Swift source code, we use [SwiftLint](https://github.com/realm/SwiftLint).
A configuration for [SwiftFormat](http://github.com/nicklockwood/SwiftFormat) is also included.

## App architecture

### Core principles

This app is built using SwiftUI and targets iOS 15 and higher. We use SwiftUI as much as possible, but fall back to UIKit views using view(controller) representables where needed.

We try to stick to the Apple conventions and write idiomatic SwiftUI code. Do things the Apple way. Lean in to the platform instead of fighting it.

Keep it simple. Less is more.

### Architecture patterns

We use the [Clean Architecture](https://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2012/08/13/the-clean-architecture.html) pattern, combined with dependency injection.

#### Clean Architecture layers

- _UI_ with SwiftUI
- _Presentation_ with the ViewModel
- _Domain_ for domain models, UseCases and other domain logic.
- _Data_ for data storage and retrieval.

#### Use cases

- Use cases are single-purpose: GetUserUseCase, but also: GetUserWithArticlesUseCase.
- Use cases can call other use-cases.

> - Use cases do not have state, state preferably lives in the data layer.

Reviewer: This is an important point. Maybe it warrants a bit more description/reasoning behind it?

#### Dependency injection

Dependency injection (DI) means that objects don't instantiate the objects or configurations that they require themselves, but they are passed in from the outside.
This is useful, because it makes code easier to test and easier to change. It promotes good separation of concerns.

> We use [Factory](https://github.com/hmlongco/Factory) as a DI container.

Reviewer: I would also mention [swift-dependencies](https://github.com/pointfreeco/swift-dependencies) as an option, because 
1) I'm prejudiced :trollface:  
2) but it also makes transition to TCA slightly easier if an app decides to move to TCA.

Fortunately, both libraries are conceptually very similar so it's easy to reason about one or the other :relaxed:

* Aren't too big, in order to keep compile times and bloat in check.

### Testing

* For business logic, we write unit tests.
* For testing the user interface, we write UI tests in a behaviour-driven way using the [Salad](https://github.com/Q42/Salad) library.
* Tests are run on CI (GitHub Actions). Tests must pass before a PR may be merged and before any sort of build is created.

### Views

* Keep views small and focused. When a view becomes large, split it up into smaller views.
* Every view gets a UI preview if at all possible. The preview should show the view in different states using dummy data.
* We use [custom SF Symbols](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uiimage/creating_custom_symbol_images_for_your_app/) whenever a custom icon is needed, so that they render in a consistent manner. 

### Accessibility

* Every new component or control should be audited for basic accessibility support:
    * Dynamic type size support
    * VoiceOver support
* Also consider:
    * Bold text support
    * High contrast support
* Use `accessibilityRepresentation` on custom controls to make them accessible. 

### Localization

> String catalogs are used to localize the project. The default languages supported are English and Dutch.

Reviewer: I looked into Swiftgen integration with string catalogs recently and I seem to remember I couldn't get it to work. Since strongly typed strings are a huge boon, this is worth looking into. Otherwise we have to fallback to plain `.strings` (maybe with a tool like [BartyCrouch](https://github.com/FlineDev/BartyCrouch)?).

Author: I like the string catalogs, and the default way that Apple uses them is without strongly typed strings. For now, let's keep it out of scope of the template. I'll make an issue for it.

Author: See issue #4

### Async code

> * Asynchronous code should be written using async/await whenever possible.
> * [Combine](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/combine) should only be used when async/await or `AsyncSequence` fall short, and more complexity is needed to solve the problem at hand.

Reviewer: I think I would steer away from words like `should`.  And let's add some explanation why. Something like this? 
```suggestion
* `async`/`await` is preferred over Combine/Promises/etc. to leverage the compiler concurrency checking.
* [Combine](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/combine) can be used when `async`/`await` or `AsyncSequence` fall short, and more complexity is needed to solve the problem at hand.
```
